So now we gotta find a way to update
our UI as we change songs and
as a song continues to play cuz right now
it's just static, it's not doing anything.
Although it's functional it doesn't give
the user any feedback on information so
we need to do that.
So the best way to do that
is to find some way to watch
a certain value and
then on some interval rerender.
If you ever heard of requestAnimationFrame
that's what we have to use.
So requestAnimationFrame,
you can think of it as like an interval
that when used,
it's basically asking the browser like,
hey, can you call me
before you paint first?
And the browser's like,
sure, I'll call you first.
So that guarantees that it's smooth is
usually called 60 times per second or
up to however faster screen is.
If you have 120 hertz screen it might
be called 120 times a second, but
at least 60 times a second.
And it also handles conflicts,
if you have more than one thing that's
trying to animate, it'll bash them and
do them together so everything's nice and
smooth and it happens before the paint.
So some people like, Just do set
interval up to 60 times a second.
No, that doesn't do the same thing that's
running it in a different thread so,
you wanna do the requestAnimationFrame.
So we need to do that on some
type of interval basically what
the requestAnimationFrame is but we wanna
do it only while playing is true and
we need to also account for
when you're seeking.
So if you're dragging we don't wanna do
it, like imagine yourself dragging and
then it's also moving at the same time
fighting your drag we don't wanna do that.
So in order to know when that's
happening we need to use effects.
So we can do a useEffect to watch
whether playing is true or false or
whether its seeking is true or false.
And then we can determine whether or
not we should be animating this value or
not animating this value.
So to do that, we'll come up
here we'll make a useEffects.
We'll say useEffects,
that takes a callback.
This useEffect is going to
be interested in two things,
it's going to be interested in
playing state and its seeking state.
Just like I said, so
we only wanna animate as we're playing,
not when we're paused and
when we're not seeking.
And we also wanna be able to cancel the
AnimationFrame just like you would cancel
a set timeout or set interval you have
to cancel the AnimationFrame as well.
Otherwise you might have memory leaks and
for
whatever reasons you
just don't wanna do that.
So just like a set interval set timeout
requestAnimationFrame will return
an ID that you can use to cancel later on.
So we're gonna make a reference to
the ID and we'll call it a timer Id.
And then I'm gonna say if you are playing,
or if the player is playing and
it is not seeking as in someone is not
dragging the thumbnail then I wanna go
ahead and make a function that we're
gonna use for our requestAnimationFrames.
I was gonna say,
it's gonna make this function here.
And I'm gonna to say as
this thing is animating,
I wanna setSeek cuz remember calling
setSeek is what's gonna update the seek
value in our UI because our UI seek
value is bound to the seek state.
So by setting the seek,
we are gonna be updating it.
So we wanna set that to whatever
the soundRef.current seek value is.
So whatever the current value of
the song is which you saw me clicking
around it's working it
does seek it's functional.
So the rack taller does know the current
seek value so now we're binding that to
the seek state that we're keeping track of
which is bound to the UI of the seek bar.
So we're just keeping
those in sync basically.
And then we're gonna say timer Id is gonna
equal a requestAnimationFrame like this,
and we're gonna pass in
our function like that.
So this too is also recursive every
time you do requestAnimationFrame is
gonna be recursive almost every time.
And then now we can come down here and
we can say timer Id equals
requestAnimationFrame pass it in,
so this will kick it off.
And then now all we have to
do is set a return value.
When you return something inside of a
UseEffects this function gets called when
the component that's using the useEffect
gets unmounted from the DOM.
This is where we're gonna clean
up the requestAnimationFrame.
So if you're using something
like a WebSocket, or
set interval, this is where you
would clean these things up.
So we're gonna go to clean up that and
we can use cancel AnimationFrame and
then pass it a timer Id.
And if our conditional was initially
false, and we end up doing none of that,
then I just wanna cancel the
AnimationFrame as well with a timer Id.
So just to walk through this again,
we're gonna set up a useEffect that tracks
the playing states and its seeking states.
If the music is currently playing,
and the user is not currently seeking,
I wanna request an AnimationFrame which
think of it as a set interval, so
it's basically gonna call this
function right here that I called F.
It's gonna call it 60 times a second.
And every time it's called,
it's updating the UI,
the seek to whatever
the sounds current seek is.
So it'll be ticking and it'll be smooth
because it's calling it 60 times a second,
which is 60 frames per second.
So to look smooth,
that's the minimum you need as a human for
something to seek smooth.
So it might go higher depending on
your refresh rate of your computer,
like on the new MacBook that have like
promotion inside of Safari that might even
look faster,
cuz those things can go up to 120 Hertz.
So you might see 120 frames per
second per animation on a play.
And then what we do is
then we kick it off.
This is a initial call.
So we recall requestAnimationFrame,
it takes our function,
one take goes by it sets the seek,
and then it calls itself again,
it sets the seek, and
then it calls itself again.
And it does that over and
over and over until we say cancel.
And cancel happens when a, we unmount
this component as in we route away,
which in our case never happens cuz
this player bar is always on a page
unless you're on the sign in or
signup page that would be the only time.
Or b, this conditional was false
which would mean you either paused or
you started seeking, so
that's when it will stop.
Which is the only time you would see the
SeekBar not move is if it was paused or
you were dragging it yourself, that's it.
So that's what this is doing.
I know it'll look harder than it is but
then when you think about it
it's like yeah, that's what it would do,
that's how it'll work.
So let's go check it out
let's see what we broke,
I'm gonna refresh this,
click a button here.
[MUSIC]
We got a question, Mark?
>> What about song end?
>> We'll get the song end, good question.
I'm saving that,
that's where the gotcha is.
I was gonna see if anyone catches it.
But as you can see my seek is
actually updating, it's moving,
it's really nice, it's totally working.
When I hit pause it stops, because I use
effects and that conditional playing is
false so it cancels the AnimationFrame
which stops setting the seek.
But when I hit play again, the useEffect
fires again cuz it's watching the playing
state, now the conditional passes and
a new AnimationFrame is started.
All right, and then if I start seeking,
you can see it doesn't move
this is just me seeking.
You can even hear it scrubbing.
[SOUND] So that works,
so we are good there.
So that logic is working,
the next thing we need to do is need
to update this count right here.
It seems to just be stuck at whatever hard
coded value that I have it just says 121.
So let us update that to
be the current seek value.
So let's go back to our code and
that's gonna be basically
to the left of our range.
So if we go down to where we at this,
That's why I didn't find it was
collapsed that's why I missed it.
I was like, where's this thing even at?
So to do that, we really just wanna get
the seek value, and it is format the time.
So we'll just come here, we'll get rid
of that, we'll use that format time,
helper that we made, and
we'll just pass and seek.
So now the UI in this text is now bound
to whatever seek value that the song
is playing through Howler and
that's all happening because of that
useEffect that we wrote up here.